# Hangman



## Functional Specification

This project is a python implementation of Hangman. It is accessed via runpython.com. The program is a single graphics screen that will update after inputs by the user. When the user first starts the program, they are presented with an empty gallows, a certain number of blanks depending on the number of letters in the word-to-be-guessed, and two buttons. When the user is ready, he can press a "Guess a letter!" button. Once this button is pressed, an input popup appears in the runpython windon where the user will make his guess. If he guesses correctly, the letter will replace the blanks in the graphics window. If he tries to guess anything other than a single letter, it will ask him to try again. If he guesses incorrectly, a "step" is added to the gallows and the letter appears to the left of the screen along with all the other incorrect guesses. If the user thinks he is ready to guess the entire word, he can press the "Guess the word!" button. Another popup will appear where the guess is made. If the user guesses correctly, the words "You Won!" appear on the screen in a green color, and the rest of the word is revealed. Otherwise, it will add another "step" to the gallows and continue playing. If the Hangman is fully constructed, the words "You Lose" appear in red on the screen and the rest of the word is revealed in red. The Hangman and gallows is a set of graphical assets. All words/letters (aside from the words on the buttons) are text assets.
